README.md, before:

# SAP EXTRACTION J3RFLVMOBVEDH

## ***Spanish Version***

Bot para extracción de transacción J3RFLVMOBVEDH en SAP Fiori.

Las librerías utilizadas son:
- Selenium
- Datatime
- Environs (para protección de credenciales)
- Os
- Shutil
- Pandas
- sqlalchemy (Conexión a SQL Server)

En primer lugar, se definió la función *descarga()* que ingresa a la transacción de SAP, mediante selenium se realizan todos los clicks correspondientes para poder realizar el flujo completo y extraer los datos.

Cabe destacar que SAP posee frames, es decir páginas dentro de otra página por lo que hay que utilizar switch para ingresar.

Por otro lado, los archivos extraidos individualmente se alojaron en una carpeta temporal en el código en donde una vez consolidados todos los archivos estos se eliminan. El consolidado es un dataframe que convierte a excel.

Cosas a considerar, al cambiar de usuario depende de su rol y perfil dentro de la plataforma dado que su url dependerá de está y a su vez la forma de ingresar a la transacción (frames)

Por último, en teoría están mapeados todos los posibles errores de SAP de tal forma que no tenga que ejecutarse de forma supervisada.

*Nota:* Para poder realizar inspection en una scrollbar, se basó en lo siguiente:
https://twitter.com/sulco/status/1305841873945272321

De la misma forma, se debe realizar mantención cada cierta cantidad de tiempo dado que el botón de descarga contiene un id dinámico por lo que se tuvo que mapear por *css selector*. 

Por último, la transacción descarga archivos que contienen *export.xlsx* los cuales no son tomados en consideración al momento de consolidar por lo que en la función de consolidado estos se eliminan.

## ***English Version***

This is a bot for the extraction in SAP Fiori transaction, exactly J3RFLVMOBVEDH.

The libraries used are:
- Selenium
- Datatime
- Environs (for security of credentials)
- Os
- Shutil
- Pandas
- sqlalchemy (conection to sql server)

Fistable, I defined the function *descarga()* that enters in the transaction in SAP by selenium I did the all scraping to do all the flow and extract the data.

Notably SAP have frames, that is websites inside another websites so we have to used switch to enterokay.

Secondly, the individually downloads files were hosted in a temporary folder in the same code, where once all the files consolidated, they are deleted. This consolidated is a dataframe that converts to excel.

Things to consider, when changing users it depends on their role and profile whithin the platform since their url will depend on this and in turn the way to enter the transaction (frames).

Finally, in theory all possible SAP errors are mapped in such away that they doesn't have to be executed in a supervised way.

*Note:* To be able to perform inspection in a scrollbar, was based on this following: https://twitter.com/sulco/status/1305841873945272321 

In the same way, maintenance should be done every certain amount of time since the download button contains a dynamic id so it had to be mapped by *css selector*.

Finally, the transaction downloads files that contain *export.xlsx* which are not taken into consideration when consolidating, so in the consolidation function these are eliminated.

## *SQL*
Install [ODBC](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/odbc/linux-mac/install-microsoft-odbc-driver-sql-server-macos?view=sql-server-ver15)

For insert database from python into SQL Server :
- https://www.dataquest.io/blog/sql-insert-tutorial/
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11451101/retrieving-data-from-sql-using-pyodbc/11451863 
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31997859/bulk-insert-a-pandas-dataframe-using-sqlalchemy


## RUN
For execute this code you have to run some commands in this order: 
1. Open the folder on the terminal
2. python3 -m venv env
3. source ./env/bin/activate
4. pip install -r requirements.txt
5. Then you have to create a new file called .env who have the credentials. For example:
    - user_name=YOUR USERNAME
    - password="YOUR PASSWORD"
    - driver_path="./chromedriver"
    - server_sql = "SERVER SQL"
    - database = "DATABASE"
    - user_sql = "USERNAME SQL"
    - pass_sql = "PASSWORD SQL"
    - mssql_driver = "ODBC+Driver+17+for+SQL+Server"

Commit message:

update readme and chrome driver

README.md, after:

# SAP EXTRACTION J3RFLVMOBVEDH

## ***Spanish Version***

Bot para extracción de transacción J3RFLVMOBVEDH en SAP Fiori.

Las librerías utilizadas son:
- Selenium
- Datatime
- Environs (para protección de credenciales)
- Os
- Shutil
- Pandas
- sqlalchemy (Conexión a SQL Server)

En primer lugar, se definió la función *descarga()* que ingresa a la transacción de SAP, mediante selenium se realizan todos los clicks correspondientes para poder realizar el flujo completo y extraer los datos.

Cabe destacar que SAP posee frames, es decir páginas dentro de otra página por lo que hay que utilizar switch para ingresar.

Por otro lado, los archivos extraidos individualmente se alojaron en una carpeta temporal en el código en donde una vez consolidados todos los archivos estos se eliminan. El consolidado es un dataframe que convierte a excel.

Cosas a considerar, al cambiar de usuario depende de su rol y perfil dentro de la plataforma dado que su url dependerá de está y a su vez la forma de ingresar a la transacción (frames)

Por último, en teoría están mapeados todos los posibles errores de SAP de tal forma que no tenga que ejecutarse de forma supervisada.

*Nota:* Para poder realizar inspection en una scrollbar, se basó en lo siguiente:
https://twitter.com/sulco/status/1305841873945272321

De la misma forma, se debe realizar mantención cada cierta cantidad de tiempo dado que el botón de descarga contiene un id dinámico por lo que se tuvo que mapear por *css selector*. 

Por último, la transacción descarga archivos que contienen *export.xlsx* los cuales no son tomados en consideración al momento de consolidar por lo que en la función de consolidado estos se eliminan.

Para instalar chromedriver, debe buscar su versión de Chrome y luego descargarla aquí [Chrome Driver](https://chromedriver.chromium.org/downloads)

## ***English Version***

This is a bot for the extraction in SAP Fiori transaction, exactly J3RFLVMOBVEDH.

The libraries used are:
- Selenium
- Datatime
- Environs (for security of credentials)
- Os
- Shutil
- Pandas
- sqlalchemy (conection to sql server)

Fistable, I defined the function *descarga()* that enters in the transaction in SAP by selenium I did the all scraping to do all the flow and extract the data.

Notably SAP have frames, that is websites inside another websites so we have to used switch to enterokay.

Secondly, the individually downloads files were hosted in a temporary folder in the same code, where once all the files consolidated, they are deleted. This consolidated is a dataframe that converts to excel.

Things to consider, when changing users it depends on their role and profile whithin the platform since their url will depend on this and in turn the way to enter the transaction (frames).

Finally, in theory all possible SAP errors are mapped in such away that they doesn't have to be executed in a supervised way.

*Note:* To be able to perform inspection in a scrollbar, was based on this following: https://twitter.com/sulco/status/1305841873945272321 

In the same way, maintenance should be done every certain amount of time since the download button contains a dynamic id so it had to be mapped by *css selector*.

Finally, the transaction downloads files that contain *export.xlsx* which are not taken into consideration when consolidating, so in the consolidation function these are eliminated.

** For install the chromedriver you have to search your chrome version and then download it here [Chrome Driver](https://chromedriver.chromium.org/downloads)

## *SQL*
Install [ODBC](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/connect/odbc/linux-mac/install-microsoft-odbc-driver-sql-server-macos?view=sql-server-ver15)

For insert database from python into SQL Server :
- https://www.dataquest.io/blog/sql-insert-tutorial/
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11451101/retrieving-data-from-sql-using-pyodbc/11451863 
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31997859/bulk-insert-a-pandas-dataframe-using-sqlalchemy


## RUN
For execute this code you have to run some commands in this order: 
1. Open the folder on the terminal
2. python3 -m venv env
3. source ./env/bin/activate
4. pip install -r requirements.txt
5. Then you have to create a new file called .env who have the credentials. For example:
    - user_name=YOUR USERNAME
    - password="YOUR PASSWORD"
    - driver_path="./chromedriver"
    - server_sql = "SERVER SQL"
    - database = "DATABASE"
    - user_sql = "USERNAME SQL"
    - pass_sql = "PASSWORD SQL"
    - mssql_driver = "ODBC+Driver+17+for+SQL+Server"
